
### 6/7/26
1. if we find the smallest path back to original point, that would be the smallest atomic enclosure.
2. going to see how to render in a color space
3. spent all of today working on creating structs to make computation more easy. Made edge struct to make things easier later on.
4. should've made better architectural decisions before.


#### Stage 2 (above): Logic for adjacent enclosures
1. I'm going to need to do is figure out how to recognize what an enclosure is (breadth-first-search)
2. how to find adjacent enclosures (if two enclosures share a edge)
3. map them to nodes
4. use backtracking to determine if 4 colors could color the map
5. figure out how to visually color in each square

___________________________________________________________________

### 6/5/26
1. have to figure out how to connect to existing point if it exists for intersection
2. figuring out if point inbetween segments had to do nearly equal due to float division.


### 5/31/26
1. you have to write your own hash function for unordered_maps
2. need to update library in cmake file whenever importing .h file
3. Use auto instead of bool for the lambda variable type. A lambda's actual type is a unique, unnamable functor generated by the compiler. While a lambda with no captures can implicitly convert to a function pointer, using auto keeps the compiler happy and avoids implicit conversion syntax traps.

### 5/30/26
1. const on a function makes it so that that function does not mutate anything
2. in order for another function to see a struct funtion, always add to .h file. That's the one that is visible to other files.
3. int& pass: by copy
4. const int&: pass by copy and no mutations 
5. all mousefunctions shouhld be called in the callback, not main
6. currentConnection.insert(nearestPoint); passes a copy

BUG: glVertexAttribPointer(0, 2, GL_FLOAT, GL_FALSE, sizeof(Point), (void*)0);
1. told openGL that I was passing 2


**The Quick Rule of Thumb**
Keep double for any variables interacting with glfwGetCursorPos or local intermediate math to maintain precision.
Keep float inside the Point struct so that the memory layout perfectly aligns with your OpenGL hardware buffers.

### 5/24/26
1. you can't pass a member function of a class directly into a C-style function pointer that expects a regular, global function (or a static method).

### Rendering Process
1. Vertex shader - We inject shaders
2. Shape Assembly
3. Geometry Shader  - We inject shaders
4. Rasterization
5. Fragment Shader  - We inject shaders
6. Tests and blends

### VBO's and VAO's
VBO: Vertex buffer object -> stores all the vertex data
VAO: Vertex array object -> stores configure states for VBO

### How to make resizing render the correct frame
//makes resizing the window possible and sets the viewport to the new dimensions
glfwMakeContextCurrent(window);
glfwSetFramebufferSizeCallback(window, framebuffer_size_callback);

### Steps: 

1. glVertexAttribPointer(0, 2, GL_FLOAT, GL_FALSE, sizeof(Point), (void*)0); -> sets up the VAO to hold certain memory
2. glBindVertexArray(VAO); glBindBuffer(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, VBO);
    tell the computer to use VAO we have as a blue print
3. glBufferData(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, linesToDraw.size() * sizeof(Point), &linesToDraw[0], GL_DYNAMIC_DRAW); -> send data to the gpu
4. glDrawArrays(GL_LINES, 0, linesToDraw.size()); -> draw the lines